[MUSIC]
Our dataset is located
conveniently on the Dataset tab.
You'll notice here that the dataset
is comprised of two columns:
SocialMedia_Mentions and WebsiteVisits.
Each row of data reflects counts
of the number of mentions of our
website on social media each day,
and the number of visitors to
our website on that same day.
We have 100 observations,
or rows, in our dataset.
For convenience of reference we have
named each of these two columns of data
SocialMedia_Mentions and
WebsiteVisits respectively.
These named ranges will save us
the hassle of having to click back and
forth between the sheets when
building our forecasting model.
Let's get started on Problem 1A.
You see that we are asked to
calculate the standard deviation of
the SocialMedia_Mentions in our data set.
This is a common first step when
exploring an unfamiliar dataset.
To do this, we'll use Excel's
standard deviation function, STDEV.
As we are working with a sample set
of data for our fictitious website,
we'll use the sample variant
of this function STDEV.S.
The STDEV.S formula requires,
as parameters,
only the data you wish to calculate
the standard deviation of.
In this case,
we wish to compute the standard
deviation of SocialMedia_Mentions.
We will parametrize STDEV.S with
the named range SocialMedia_Mentions.
We see now the standard deviation
of SocialMedia_Mentions.
I've calculated the average,
or mean value of the dataset as 753.46.
With a standard deviation of 269.63,
how spread out are our data
around their mean value?
If we were to quickly calculate
the ratio of these two values,
standard deviation to mean,
we'd get a value of about 36%.
This suggests that our standard deviation
is approximately 36% of our mean.
Or that our data are somewhat dispersed,
or spread out around the mean value.
If this ratio was higher, it would
suggest even more dispersion in our data.
The higher this ratio is,
the lower our confidence should be in
the conclusions drawn from
the dataset using linear regression.
We'd like to better understand
our dataset, though,
in particular, its shape and distribution.
To better understand our data,
we will also calculate other's
descriptive statistics.
Let's calculate the minimum and
maximum values in our SocialMedia_Mentions
data in order to get a sense of the range
of the values these data take on.
To calculate the minimum value,
we'll use Excel's MIN function.
The MIN function requires,
as parameters, the values of which
you'd like to find the minimum.
In this case, we'll parametrize MIN with
the SocialMedia_Mentions named range,
and set it to work.
We can find the maximum value in a similar
manner using Excel's MAX function.
Similar to MIN, MAX requires,
as parameters, the values of which
you'd like the find the maximum.
Let's parametrize MAX with our
SocialMedia_Mentions named range, and
set it to work.
For further convenience of reference,
we have created named ranges for
each of the values and ranges we
calculate as part of this problem.
We have named the cells in which
we've just calculated the minimum and
maximum values,
Min_SocialMedia_Mentions and
Max_SocialMedia_Mentions, respectively.
We will follow a similar
intuitive process for
creating named ranges
throughout these exercises.
When you see us type formula going
forward, please note that the named
ranges referenced have been
created to assist our exercise.
We suggest you use named ranges also when
completing the exercises in this module
and when conducting spreadsheet
analysis of your own.
It would be ideal to visualize
the shape of the data
to get a sense of how they are dispersed.
One way to do this is to plot a histogram.
Histograms show counts of data values
which fall within equally-sized
buckets across the range
of values our data take on.
This maybe a bit hard to follow just now,
but as we work through this exercise,
you'll develop a better
understanding of histograms.
We've also provided references to
additional material on histograms,
which we advise you to explore.
In the meanwhile though, let's prepare
to plot a histogram of our data.
Our first step is to determine the number
of buckets, or more formally bins,
which we will use to collect or
bucket values from our dataset.
As we have only 100
observations in our dataset,
a nice number of bins would be
something between 10 and 15.
Let's choose 12 as our number of bins, and
enter this value into the spreadsheet.
Next, we need to determine the size,
or width of our bins.
Again, think of these as buckets.
Let's take our maximum value observed in
the dataset and divide that by our desired
number of bins to ensure we get
a reasonable fit to our dataset.
Let's use the INT function to round our
result down to the nearest integer.
You'll notice that our next highlighted
range has automatically populated.
These are the values which
demarcate each of our 12 bins.
Let's explore the calculations necessary
to produce the values for each bin.
You'll notice that the value
of our first bin is 114.
When we build our histogram,
the number of observations in our
dataset of SocialMedia_Mentions,
which are less than or equal to 114,
will be countered for this bin.
We will effectively count
the number of observations in
the 0 to 114 inclusive
bucket of our chart.
It follows, then, that we want to
increment the next bucket or bin boundary
by our bin size of 114.
This is exactly what we do to
calculate the next bin value.
You'll see here, that we take our previous
bin value and add our bin size to it.
Please note that this logic pervades
throughout the balance of our bin
calculations.
You may wonder why, if we're bucketing
our data, we don't calculate our last
bucket as a value greater than
the maximum value of our data set.
We'll address this shortly when we
calculate the values for our histogram.
Now, let's use the histogram feature
of the Analysis ToolPak to bin or
bucket our SocialMedia_Mentions dataset,
using the bins we've just calculated.
To access the Histogram tool,
click on the Data tab of the ribbon,
and select the Data Analysis
button in the Analysis grouping.
Next, select the Histogram
tool from the list box.
This tool will guide us through
the process of creating the data for
our histogram.
The first input to
the tool is Input Range.
This is the data in our
SocialMedia_Mentions named range.
You can either type the name of our
named range into this field, or
select the range from the Dataset tab.
The next input to the Histogram tool
is the range containing
the values of our bins.
Let's point the tool to
the bin's SocialMedia_Mentions
range either by typing the name
of the named range, or
by selecting the range using
the range selection button.
We've created a placeholder,
which is also linked to a lovely chart,
in the spreadsheet for Problem Number 1A.
Lastly, let's tell the Histogram
tool where to output the data for
our histogram too.
Let's tell the Histogram tool to output
its calculations starting in the cell
immediately below the row
containing the bolded header,
Data Analysis ToolPak Output.
We encourage you to examine how this
simple Excel column chart was created
though, independently.
We can determine by
examining the histogram,
that our data tend to be disbursed
around the center-most value bin.
It seems that there are fewer and
fewer observations of data with
values significantly different than
the center-most value bin as we
go to the left or right of it.
In fact, this histogram rather
resembles the famous bell curve
with which you may be acquainted.
The histogram is a very useful tool in
developing a sense of the shape and
distribution of a series of data.
We can also see that
values between 685 and
798 occur most frequently
within this dataset.
As the 798 bin is the tallest column
when plotted in our histogram.
You will recall our standard
deviation of about 270.
With a bin size of 114,
we can see visually that one standard
deviation is about two and a half bins
to either side of the central bin.
A histogram is a useful tool to
allow us to quickly determine
the shape of our data.
Let's continue calculating
descriptive statistics of
our SocialMedia_Mentions dataset.
You'll recall from our introduction
to this module, that the variance is
another measure of how spread out values
are in a dataset from their mean value.
Let's calculate the variance of
the SocialMedia_Mentions series.
Excel's built-in VAR function
will calculate variance for us.
Again, as we're working
with a sample set of data,
we'll use the VAR.S() function
to calculate sample variance.
VAR.S() requires, as parameters,
the values you wish to
calculate sample variance for.
Let's parametrize VAR.S() with our
SocialMedia_Mentions named range and
set it to work.
Notice that the value of the variance is
quite large relative to the values in
the SocialMedia_Mentions dataset.
It is difficult to relate this value
intuitively to the values in the dataset.
For this reason, standard deviation,
which is the square root of variance,
is used more frequently as a measure
of the dispersion of the dataset.
Let's now examine how the two
series in our dataset,
SocialMedia_Mentions and WebsiteVisits,
change or vary together.
One measure of this is covariance.
Similar to variance, covariance is
a bit difficult to interpret, and so
we will subsequently calculate
the correlation of these two datasets.
As we are working with sample data,
we will calculate sample covariance.
Excel's COVARIANCE.S function will
calculate the sample covariance of
two arrays.
We will parameterize COVARIANCE.S with the
named ranges of our two series of data,
SocialMedia_Mentions and WebsiteVisits.
Let's do so and set COVARIANCE.S to work.
As we are working with sample data,
we will calculate sample
covariance of two arrays.
We will parametrize COVARIANCE.S with the
named ranges of our two series of data,
SocialMedia_Mentions, and Website_Visits.
Let's do so, and set COVARIANCE.S to work.
Notice here, similar to our variance
calculation, that the covariance
number is quite large and difficult to
intuitively relate to values in the data.
It would be ideal to have a normalized
expression of how these two variables,
SocialMedia_Mentions and
WebsiteVisits, change together.
Fortunately, we have
just that in correlation.
You'll recall that correlation is
a normalized measure between -1 and 1,
which indicates the direction of
the relationship between two variables
as their values change.
A correlation of 1 would imply that for
every one unit of increase in
SocialMedia_Mentions, we get one
unit of increase in WebsiteVisits.
Conversely, a correlation of -1
would imply that for every one unit
increase in SocialMediaMentions, we get
a one unit decrease in WebsiteVisits.
A correlation close to 0 would imply that
there is little change in WebsiteVisits,
as SocialMedia_Mentions change,
either positively or negatively.
Let's calculate correlation between
SocialMedia_Mentions and WebsiteVisits.
Excel's CORREL function
will calculate this for us.
It requires, as parameters, the two arrays
for which it will calculate correlation.
Let's set it to work on our two variables.
Notice that we have calculated
the value of 0.79 as the correlation
between SocialMedia_Mentions and
WebsiteVisits.
As this number is positive and close to 1,
we can conclude that these two variables
are fairly strongly positively correlated.
Let's explore one final measure of the
strength of the relationship between our
two variables.
R-Squared, or
the coefficient of determination,
is a measure of the proportion of variance
in one variable which can be predicted
by the other variable.
It takes values between 0 and 1.
An R-Squared of 1, for our two variables,
could be interpreted as 100% of
variance in WebsiteVisits can be
explained by SocialMedia_Mentions.
Conversely, an R-Squared value of
0 could be interpreted as 0% of
variance in WebsiteVisits can be
explained by SocialMedia_Mentions.
Let's calculate R-Squared, or
the coefficient of determination, for
our two variables,
SocialMedia_Mentions and WebsiteVisits.
Excel's RSQ function will
calculate R-Squared for us, and
requires as parameters,
the array of observations of each
of SocialMedia_Mentions and WebsiteVisits.
Note that it asks for known Ys first.
So let's be sure to
enter our WebsiteVisits,
the dependant variable,
as the first parameter.
Let's set it to work.
Notice that we calculate a value
of 0.62 as our R-Squared, or
co-efficient of determination.
We can interpret this as 62% of changes in
WebsiteVisits can be explained
by SocialMedia_Mentions.
This is not a particularly
strong R-Squared,
as we would prefer
a value much closer to 1.
Now it's your turn to demonstrate
your understanding of
standard deviation, variance,
histograms, covarience,
correlation, and
R-Squared as you work through Problem 1B.
[MUSIC]